README.md, before:

This action receives an unformatted multiline text and create hyperlinks, finding Jira Tickets and Github PRs using RegExp. The created hyperlinks are following Slack's format. It's recomended if your team squash commits from feature branches to main, and the commit message contains a Jira Task ID, like `PROJ-1923`.  
This action doesn't generate the log between two tags, just format the message (and optionally send the message), creating the hyperlinks following the Slack's pattern.

## Inputs

### \*`changeLogInput`

Text you want to format, it is usually a result from another command, like `git log`.

### \*`jiraTicketPattern`

RegExp to find the Jira Ticket in the commit messages. E.g. `'PROJ-\d+'`.

### \*`jiraURL`

Jira URL used to create the Task URL. E.g. `https://jira.company.com`.

### `githubServer`

URL of the Github server, defaults to https://github.com

### `slackBotToken`

Slack Bot Token, required to send messages using WebClient, read more in https://api.slack.com/authentication/token-types#bot

### `slackChannel`

Slack Channel to send a message, it can be a channel like '#channel-name' or a user like '@username'

> If both slack inputs are not defined, this action won't fail, the formatted message will be created and exposed on `formattedChangelog` output

## Outputs

### `formattedChangelog`

Formatted message, ready to send to Slack, if you prefer to send the message using another method.  
It keeps the compability with the previous version.

## Example usage

```yaml
changelog:
  runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
  name: Sending Changelog To Slack
  steps:
    - id: gitlog
      env:
        old_version: '1.0.0'
        new_version: '1.2.0'
      run:
        ## Workarround to generate a multiline shell variable in Github Actions
        GITLOG=$(git log ${{ env.old_version }}..${{ env.new_version }} --oneline | cut -f 2- -d ' ')
        echo "GITLOG<<EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "*Old Version: \`${{ env.old_version }}\`*" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "*New version: \`${{ env.new_version }}\`*" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "*Changes:*" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "$GITLOG" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV

        ## Example of expected output from these commands ##
        # PROJ-2684 Set info log level for Inventory Service. (#2151)
        # PROJ-NONE add BadgeBase component (#2150)
        # PROJ-NONE Extend FieldsControllerInput.tsx with AutoDropdown (#2134)
        # PROJ-2684, PROJ-1234 Fix stuck transaction polling jobs. (#2143)
        # PROJ-NONE Updating Datadog Java Agent Version (#2148)
        # PROJ-NONE Fixing environment validation on tf-deploy (#2147)
        # PROJ-NONE Applying podAntiAffinity on envoy-linkerd
        # PROJ-8347 Revert (Applying podAntiAffinity on envoy-linkerd (#1445)) (#2145)
        # PROJ-2178 add tooltip and fix dropdown bug (#2122)
        # PROJ-2645 create trades review page (#2102)
        # PROJ-2674 Sending changelog between versions to slack (#2144)

        if [[ ! -z $GITLOG ]]; then echo "::set-output name=log::true"; fi
        ## you can use this output to validate if the changelog was generated before following with the workflow
    - uses: rsmartins78/changelog-to-slack-formatter@v2
      id: changelog
      if: steps.gitlog.outputs.log == 'true' ## optional
      with:
        changeLogInput: ${{ env.GITLOG }}
        jiraTicketPattern: 'PROJ-\d+'
        jiraURL: "https://jira.company.com"
        slackBotToken: ${{ secrets.SLACK_BOT_TOKEN }}
        slackChannel: ${{ secrets.SLACK_CHANNEL }}
```

Commit message:

Improving Slack message (#3)
* using blockkit attachments

* .

* updating core lib

* fix syntax

* improving message to slack

* using module.exports

* removing unused package.json

* .

* [ci skip] rollback test.yml

README.md, after:

This action receives an unformatted multiline text and create hyperlinks, finding Jira Tickets and Github PRs using RegExp. The created hyperlinks are following Slack's format. It's recomended if your team squash commits from feature branches to main, and the commit message contains a Jira Task ID, like `PROJ-1923`.  
This action doesn't generate the log between two tags, just format the message (and optionally send the message), creating the hyperlinks following the Slack's pattern.

## Inputs

### \*`changeLogInput`

Text you want to format, it is usually a result from another command, like `git log`.

### \*`jiraTicketPattern`

RegExp to find the Jira Ticket in the commit messages. E.g. `'PROJ-\d+'`.

### \*`jiraURL`

Jira URL used to create the Task URL. E.g. `https://jira.company.com`.

### `githubServer`

URL of the Github server, defaults to https://github.com

### `oldVersion`

If set, will be used on the slack message (requires slackBotToken and slackChannel)

### `newVersion`

If set, will be used on the slack message (requires slackBotToken and slackChannel)

### `slackBotToken`

Slack Bot Token, required to send messages using WebClient, read more in https://api.slack.com/authentication/token-types#bot

### `slackChannel`

Slack Channel to send a message, it can be a channel like '#channel-name' or a user like '@username'

> If both slack inputs are not defined, this action won't fail, the formatted message will be created and exposed on `formattedChangelog` output

## Outputs

### `formattedChangelog`

Formatted message, ready to send to Slack, if you prefer to send the message using another method.  
It keeps the compability with the previous version.

## Example usage

```yaml
changelog:
  runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
  name: Sending Changelog To Slack
  steps:
    - id: gitlog
      env:
        old_version: "1.0.0"
        new_version: "1.2.0"
      run:
        ## Workarround to generate a multiline shell variable in Github Actions
        GITLOG=$(git log ${{ env.old_version }}..${{ env.new_version }} --oneline | cut -f 2- -d ' ')
        echo "GITLOG<<EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "*Changes:*" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "$GITLOG" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        echo "EOF" >> $GITHUB_ENV
        if [[ ! -z $GITLOG ]]; then echo "::set-output name=log::true"; fi
        ## you can use this output to validate if the changelog was generated before following with the workflow

        ##########################################################
        ##### Example of expected output from these commands #####
        ##########################################################

        # PROJ-2684 Set info log level for Inventory Service. (#2151)
        # PROJ-NONE add BadgeBase component (#2150)
        # PROJ-NONE Extend FieldsControllerInput.tsx with AutoDropdown (#2134)
        # PROJ-2684, PROJ-1234 Fix stuck transaction polling jobs. (#2143)
        # PROJ-NONE Updating Datadog Java Agent Version (#2148)
        # PROJ-NONE Fixing environment validation on tf-deploy (#2147)
        # PROJ-NONE Applying podAntiAffinity on envoy-linkerd
        # PROJ-8347 Revert (Applying podAntiAffinity on envoy-linkerd (#1445)) (#2145)
        # PROJ-2178 add tooltip and fix dropdown bug (#2122)
        # PROJ-2645 create trades review page (#2102)
        # PROJ-2674 Sending changelog between versions to slack (#2144)

    - uses: rsmartins78/changelog-to-slack-formatter@v2
      id: changelog
      if: steps.gitlog.outputs.log == 'true' ## optional
      with:
        changeLogInput: ${{ env.GITLOG }}
        jiraTicketPattern: 'PROJ-\d+'
        jiraURL: "https://jira.company.com"
        slackBotToken: ${{ secrets.SLACK_BOT_TOKEN }}
        slackChannel: ${{ secrets.SLACK_CHANNEL }}
        oldVersion: "1.0.0"
        newVersion: "1.2.0"
```
